.TH LDBDC 1 "15 June 2003" "ldbd" "lightweight database dumper" 
.SH NAME
ldbdc \- lightweight database dumper client
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ldbdc
.RB \-\-server
.IR host:port
.RB \-\-database
.IR name
.RB [ \-\-sql
.IR query ]
.RB [ \-\-insert
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-\-identity
.IR subject ]
.RB [ \-\-output
.IR file ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIldbdc\fP inserts a LIGO lightweight XML file into the specified
database and/or executes an SQL query returning the results as a LIGO
lightweight XML to the standard output or a file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-s,\-\-server " host:port"
connect to ldbd server at \fIhost\fP on \fIport\fP. If \fIport\fP is not
specified, then the default of 49999 is used
.TP
.BI -j,\-\-identity " subject"
Use \fIsubject\fP as the subject of the server's identity certificate.
If no identity is specified, the client assumes that it should expect 
an ldbdserver service certificate issued by the DOE for the hostname
specifed by \fIhost\fP (see \fBAUTHENTICATION\fP below)
.TP
.BI -d,\-\-database " name"
interact with the database called \fIname\fP on \fIhost\fP
.TP
.BI -i,\-\-insert " file"
insert the data in the LIGO lightweight XML file names \fIfile\fP into
the database
.TP
.BI -q,\-\-query " query"
Execute the SQL query \fIquery\fP at the specified database and return
the results of the query as a LIGO lightweight XML file
.TP
.BI -o,\-\-output " file"
Write the returned LIGO lightweight XML file to \fIfile\fP insted of
the standard output.
.TP
.BI -v,\-\-verbose
print lots of debugging information during execution
.TP
.BI -h,\-\-help
print a brief usage message
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.PP
An exit status of 0 means that the no errors ocourred, 1 means that there
was an error communicating with the server and 2 means that the server
returned an error to the client.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
ldbdc --server metaserver.phys.uwm.edu --database uwm_dev --insert test.xml

Inserts the LIGO lightweight XML file test.xml into the uwm_dev database at
metaserver.phys.uwm.edu
.PP
ldbdc --server metaserver.phys.uwm.edu:60000 --database uwm_dev --query "SELECT * FROM SNGL_INSPIRAL" --output inspiralevents.xml

Retrieves all the entries from the SNGL_INSPIRAL table in the uwm_dev database
at metaserver.phys.uwm.edu on port 60000 and writes the results to the file
inspiralevents.xml
.SH AUTHENTICATION
.PP
The ldbd package uses Globus GSI authentication using X.509 cerficates issued
by a the DOEgrid certificate authority. Before running the client to connect
to a server, the user must obtain an X.509 certificate and communcate the
subject of the certificate to the database administrator so the the server can
authenticate the client user. The user must also run the \fIgrid-proxy-init\fP
program to give the client access to the users key.
.PP
The client program also expects the server to authenticate itself. To do this 
the client needs to know the subject of the certificate that the server is 
presenting. The is done by either specifying the subject directly with the
\fI--identity\fP option or by letting the client assume that the server will
present an ldbdserver service certificate issued by DOEgrids for the host that
the server runs on. For example if the \fI--host\fP option is
\fBmyhost.com\fP, then the client will expect the server to
present a certificate with the subject:

\fB/O=doesciencegrid.org/OU=Services/CN=ldbdserver/myhost.com\fP
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (C) 2003 Duncan Brown.
.PP
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
ldbdd(8)
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Duncan Brown <duncan@gravity.phys.uwm.edu>
.SH BUGS
.PP
If the query produces a large amount of data, it can take the server a long
time to parse it into LIGO lightweight XML. This is due to the code in the
server being a prototype algorithm which will be optimised soon. 
