.TH LALAPPS_HELLO 1 "11 July 2001" LALApps LALApps
.SH NAME
lalapps_hello - prints "hello LSC!"

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lalapps_hello
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR dbglvl ] 
.RB [ \-o 
.IR outfile ] 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIlalapps_hello\fP prints "hello LSC!" to the screen or to an output file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h
Print a help message.
.TP
.BI \-V
Print the version information.
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose output.
.TP
.BI \-d " dbglvl"
Set LAL debug level to \fIdbglvl\fP.
.TP
.BI \-o " outfile"
Write the output to file \fIoutfile\fP.

.SH DEBUG LEVELS
The LAL debug level can be specified as an integer or as a string of flags:
.RS
.TP
.B NDEBUG
No debugging information is printed and memory debugging code is disabled.
.TP
.B ERROR
Error messages are printed.
.TP
.B WARNING
Warning messages are printed.
.TP
.B INFO
Information messages are printed.
.TP
.B TRACE
Function call tracing messages are printed.
.TP
.B MEMINFO
Memory allocation information messages are printed.
.TP
.B MEMDBG
Debugging of memory allocation routines is enabled but no messages are printed.
.RE
.PP

The following composite levels are available:
.RS
.TP
.B MSGLVL1
Equivalent to
.B ERROR
.TP
.B MSGLVL2
Equivalent to
.B ERROR | WARNING
.TP
.B MSGLVL3
Equivalent to
.B ERROR | WARNING | INFO
.TP
.B ALLDBG
All debugging messages are printed.
.RE
.PP

For example, the command
.PP
.RS
lalapps_hello -d "ERROR | INFO"
.RE
.PP
will set the debug level so that error and information messages are printed.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR LAL_DEBUG_LEVEL
Default LAL debug level to use.

.SH AUTHOR
Jolien Creighton
