.TH LALAPPS_FINDCHIRP_POST 1 "11 Jun 2002" LALApps LALApps
.SH NAME
lalapps_findchirp_post - post process event files from findchirp

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lalapps_findchirp
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR dbglvl ] 
]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR dbglvl ] 
.RB [ \-m ]
.RB [ \-s 
.IR minsnr\-maxsnr ] 
.RB [ \-c 
.IR minchisq\-maxchisq ] 
.RB [ \-b 
.IR bins ]
.RB [ \-e 
.IR eventfile ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIlalapps_findchirp_post\fP post process event files from findchirp.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h
Print a help message.
.TP
.BI \-V
Print the version information.
.TP
.BI \-v
Verbose output.
.TP
.BI \-d " dbglvl"
Set LAL debug level to \fIdbglvl\fP.
.TP
.BI \-m
Maximize events over injections. This options caused only the loudest event
(in SNR) in each window of length 100/pi = 31.8309886183791 to be processed.
The window starts at the time of the first event.
.TP
.BI \-s " minsnr\-maxsnr"
Set minimum and maximum of the range of signal to noise ratio for creation
of the histogram bins.  (Default is 7.0\-14.0.)
.TP
.BI \-c " minchisq\-maxchisq"
Set minimum and maximum of the range of chi squared veto statistic for
creation of the histogram bins.  (Default is 0.0\-50.0.)
.TP
.BI \-b " bins"
Set the number of bins in the two dimensional histogram. (Default is 10.)
.TP
.BI \-e " eventfile"
Set the path to the file containing the list of inspiral events. 
(Default is eventfile.dat.) The event file must be of the format
.B END_TIME END_TIME_NS EFF_DISTANCE MASS1 MASS2 MCHIRP ETA SNR CHISQ SIGMASQ.
Each event should be separated by a new line. Lines beginning with an
octothorpe are ignored.

.SH DEBUG LEVELS
The LAL debug level can be specified as an integer or as a string of flags:
.RS
.TP
.B NDEBUG
No debugging information is printed and memory debugging code is disabled.
.TP
.B ERROR
Error messages are printed.
.TP
.B WARNING
Warning messages are printed.
.TP
.B INFO
Information messages are printed.
.TP
.B TRACE
Function call tracing messages are printed.
.TP
.B MEMINFO
Memory allocation information messages are printed.
.TP
.B MEMDBG
Debugging of memory allocation routines is enabled but no messages are printed.
.RE
.PP

The following composite levels are available:
.RS
.TP
.B MSGLVL1
Equivalent to
.B ERROR
.TP
.B MSGLVL2
Equivalent to
.B ERROR | WARNING
.TP
.B MSGLVL3
Equivalent to
.B ERROR | WARNING | INFO
.TP
.B ALLDBG
All debugging messages are printed.
.RE
.PP

For example, the command
.PP
.RS
lalapps_findchirp_post -d "ERROR | INFO"
.RE
.PP
will set the debug level so that error and information messages are printed.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR LAL_DEBUG_LEVEL
Default LAL debug level to use.

.SH AUTHOR
Duncan Brown
