.TH LALAPPS_INSPINJ 1 "7 May 2002" LALApps LALApps
.SH NAME
lalapps_inspinj - produces inspiral injection data files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lalapps_inspinj
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.RB \-\-source\-file
.IR sfile
.RB \-\-mass\-file
.IR mfile
.RB \-\-gps\-start\-time
.IR tstart
.RB \-\-gps\-end\-time 
.IR tend
.RB [ \-\-time\-step
.IR tstep ]
.RB \-\-seed
.IR seed
.RB [ \-\-waveform
.IR wave ] 
.RB [ \-\-usertag
.IR tag ] 
.RB [ \-\-ilwd ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIlalapps_inspinj\fP generates a number of inspiral parameters suitable
for using in a Monte Carlo injection to test the efficiency of a inspiral
search.  The various parameters (detailed below) are randomly chosen and
are appropriate for a particular population of binary neutron stars whose
spatial distribution includes the Milky Way and a number of extragalactic
objects that are input in a datafile.  The possible mass pairs for the
binary neutron star companions are also specified in a (different) datafile.

The output of this program is a list of the injected events, starting at
the specified start time, ending at the specified end time, and containing
one set of random inspiral parameters every specified time step.  The output
is written to a file name in the standard inspiral pipeline format:

HL-INJECTIONS_\fIUSERTAG\fP_\fISEED\fP-\fIGPSSTART\fP-\fIDURATION\fP.xml

where \fIUSERTAG\fP is \fItag\fP as specified on the command line,
\fISEED\fP is the value of the random number seed chosen and
\fIGPSSTART\fP and \fIDURATION\fP describes the GPS time interval that the
file covers.  The file is in the standarf LIGO lightweight XML format
containing a \fIsim_inspiral\fP table that describes the injections.  In
addition, an ascii log file called \fIinjlog.txt\fP is written.  If a
\fI--user-tag\fP is not specified on the command line, the \fI_USERTAG\fP
part of the filename will be omitted.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Print a help message.
.TP
\fB\-\-source\-file\fR \fIsfile\fR
Optional. Data file containing spatial distribution of extragalactic objects.
Default is the file \fIinspsrcs.dat\fP provided by LALApps.
.TP
\fB\-\-mass\-file\fR \fImfile\fR
Optional. Data file containing mass pairs for the binary neutron star
companions.  Default is the file \fIBNSMasses.dat\fP provided by LALApps.
.TP
\fB\-\-gps\-start\-time\fR \fItstart\fR
Optional. Start time of the injection data to be created.  Defaults to the
start of S2, Feb 14 2003 16:00:00 UTC (GPS time 729273613)
.TP
\fB\-\-gps\-end\-time\fR \fItend\fR
Optional. End time of the injection data to be created.  Defaults to the
end of S2, Apr 14 2003 15:00:00 UTC (GPS time 734367613)
.TP
\fB\-\-time\-step\fR \fItstep\fR
Optional. Sets the time step interval between injections.  The injections
will occour at \fItstep\fR/pi second intervals.  Defaults to 2630/pi.
.TP
\fB\-\-seed\fR \fIseed\fR
Optional. Seed the random number generator with the integer \fIseed\fR.
Defaults to 1.
.TP
\fB\-\-waveform\fR \fIwave\fR
Optional. The string \fIwave\fR will be written into the \fIwaveform\fR
column of the \fIsim_inspiral\fR table output.  This is used by the inspiral
code to determine which type of waveforms it should inject into the data.
Defaults is \fIGeneratePPNtwoPN\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-user\-tag\fR \fIstring\fR
Optional.  Set the user tag for this job to be \fIstring\fR.  May also be
specified on the command line as \fI-userTag\fR for LIGO database compatibility.
.TP
\fB\-\-ilwd\fR
Optional. If this option is given, lalapps_inspinj also produces two
ILWD-format files, injepochs.ilwd and injparams.ilwd, that contain,
respectively, the GPS times suitable for inspiral injections, and the intrinsic
inspiral signal parameters to be used for those injections.
The file injepochs.ilwd contains a sequence of integer pairs representing the
injection GPS time in seconds and residual nano-seconds. The file
injparams.ilwd contains the intrinsic binary parameters for each injection,
which is a sequence of eight real numbers representing (in order) (1) the total
mass of the binary system (in solar masses), (2) the dimensionless reduced mass
-- reduced mass per unit total mass -- in the range from 0 (extreme mass ratio)
to 0.25 (equal masses), (3) the distance to the system in meters, (4) the
inclination of the binary system orbit to the plane of the sky in radians, (5)
the colaescence phase in radians, (6) the longitude to the direction of the
source in radians, (7) the latitude to the direction of the source in radians,
(8) and the polarization angle of the source in radians.

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
lalapps_inspinj --seed 45 --source-file inspsrcs.dat --mass-file BNSMasses.dat

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR LALAPPS_DATA_PATH
Directory to look for the default mass file BNSMasses.dat and the default
source file inspsrcs.dat.

.SH AUTHOR
Jolien Creighton, Patrick Brady, Duncan Brown
