.TH LALAPPS_RING 1 "11 July 2001" LALApps LALApps
.SH NAME
lalapps_ring - filters data through a bank of ringdown filters

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lalapps_ring
.RB [ \-\-help ]
.RB [ \-\-version ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-gps\-start\-time
.IR startsec ] 
.RB [ \-\-gps\-start\-time\-ns
.IR startnan ] 
.RB [ \-\-gps\-end\-time
.IR endsec ] 
.RB [ \-\-gps\-end\-time\-ns
.IR endnan ] 
.RB [ \-\-channel\-name
.IR channel ] 
.RB [ \-\-calibration\-frame\-cache
.IR calcache ] 
.RB [ \-\-response\-file
.IR respfile ] 
.RB [ \-\-data\-frame\-cache
.IR datcache ] 
.RB [ \-\-frame\-files
.IR pattern ] 
.RB [ \-\-frame\-path
.IR path ] 
.RB [ \-\-bank\-start\-template
.IR bmin ] 
.RB [ \-\-bank\-end\-template
.IR bmax ] 
.RB [ \-\-output\-file
.IR outfile ] 
.RB [ \-\-sample\-rate
.IR srate ] 
.RB [ \-\-user\-tag
.IR tag ] 
.RB [ \-\-userTag
.IR tag ] 
.RB [ \-\-filter\-params
.IR parfile ] 
.RB [ \-\-filter\-params
.IR parfile ] 
.RB \-\-filter\-segsz
.IR npts
.RB [ \-\-filter\-speclen
.IR len ]
.RB \-\-filter\-flow
.IR flow
.RB \-\-filter\-fmin
.IR fmin
.RB \-\-filter\-fmax
.IR fmax
.RB \-\-filter\-qmin
.IR qmin
.RB \-\-filter\-qmax
.IR qmax
.RB \-\-filter\-maxmm
.IR maxmm
.RB \-\-filter\-thresh
.IR thrsh
.RB [ \-\-filter\-scale
.IR scale ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIlalapps_ring\fP uses matched filtering to search for ringdown waveforms
in gravitational wave data.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-help
Print a help message.
.TP
.BI \-\-version
Print the version information.
.TP
.BI \-\-verbose
Verbose output.
.TP
.BI \-\-gps\-start\-time " startsec"
Analyze data starting at GPS time \fIstartsec\fP seconds.
[Default is to start at the beginning of available data.]
.TP
.BI \-\-gps\-start\-time\-ns " startnan"
Analyze data starting \fIstartnan\fP nano-seconds after \fIstartsec\fP.
[Default is to start at the beginning of available data.]
.TP
.BI \-\-gps\-end\-time " endsec"
Analyze data ending at GPS time \fIendsec\fP seconds.
[Default is to analyze 64 seconds of data after the start time.]
.TP
.BI \-\-gps\-end\-time\-ns " endnan"
Analyze data ending \fIendnan\fP nano-seconds after \fIendsec\fP.
[Default is to analyze 64 seconds of data after the start time.]
.TP
.BI \-\-channel\-name " channel"
Analyze the data channel \fIchannel\fP.
[Default is \fIH1:LSC-AS_Q\fP.]
.TP
.BI \-\-calibration\-frame\-cache " calcache"
Get and update calibration information using the frame files specified
in the cache file \fIcalcache\fP.
[Default is to used a fixed ascii response function.]
.TP
.BI \-\-response\-file " respfile"
Get calibration information from fixed response function ascii file
\fIrespfile\fP.  [Default is \fIresponse.asc\fP.]
.TP
.BI \-\-data\-frame\-cache " datcache"
Get data to analyze from frame files specified in the cache file \fIdatcache\fP.
[Default is to use specified frame files.]
.TP
.BI \-\-frame\-files " pattern"
Specify the frame files containing the data to analyze using the pattern
\fIpattern\fP.  [Default is \fI*.gwf\fP.]
.TP
.BI \-\-frame\-path " path"
Specify the directory \fIpath\fP which containing the frame files containing
the data to analyze.  [Default is \fI.\fP.]
.TP
.BI \-\-bank\-start\-template " bmin"
Specify the first template in the template bank to filter.
[Default is 0, which is the first template.]
.TP
.BI \-\-bank\-end\-template " bmax"
Specify the last template in the template bank to filter.
[Default is the last template in the bank.]
.TP
.BI \-\-output\-file " outfile"
Specify the output file to write event results.
[Default is \fIIFO-RING-tstart-duration.xml\fP.]
.TP
.BI \-\-sample\-rate " srate"
Specify the desired sampling rate \fIsrate\fP in Hz; the raw data will be
resampled to this sampling rate if it is not already at this sampling rate.
[Default is to use the raw sampling rate.]
.TP
.BI \-\-user\-tag " tag"
.TP
.BI \-\-userTag " tag"
Specify an arbitrary user tag.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-params " parfile"
Read filter parameters from file \fIparfile\fP.
[Default is to read parameters from command line.]
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\fIfilterparam\fP " value"
Specify the appropriate filter parameter \fIfilterparam\fP to \fIvalue\fP.
Possible options are:
.RS
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-segsz " npts"
Set filter parameter \fI-segsz\fP to value \fInpts\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-speclen " len"
Set filter parameter \fI-speclen\fP to value \fIlen\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-flow " flow"
Set filter parameter \fI-flow\fP to value \fIflow\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-fmin " fmin"
Set filter parameter \fI-fmin\fP to value \fIfmin\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-fmax " fmax"
Set filter parameter \fI-fmax\fP to value \fIfmax\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-qmin " qmin"
Set filter parameter \fI-qmin\fP to value \fIqmin\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-qmax " qmax"
Set filter parameter \fI-qmax\fP to value \fIqmax\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-maxmm " maxmm"
Set filter parameter \fI-maxmm\fP to value \fImaxmm\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-thresh " thrsh"
Set filter parameter \fI-thresh\fP to value \fIthrsh\fP.
.TP
.BI \-\-filter\-scale " scale"
Set filter parameter \fI-scale\fP to value \fIscale\fP.
.RE

.SH FILTER PARAMETERS
The filter parameters can be specified either on the command line as
\fI--filter\fP-type options or in a resource file that is
input using the \fI--filter-params\fP option.  As a resource file, each
option-value pair should have their own line.
.TP
.BI \-segsz " npts"
Set the size of segments analyzed to \fInpts\fP points.
.TP
.BI \-speclen " len"
Set the size of inverse spectrum truncation to \fIlen\fP points [0].
.TP
.BI \-flow " flow"
Set the low frequency cutoff to \fIflow\fP Hz.
.TP
.BI \-fmin " fmin"
Set the minimum frequency for the bank to \fIfmin\fP Hz.
.TP
.BI \-fmax " fmax"
Set the maximum frequency for the bank to \fIfmax\fP Hz.
.TP
.BI \-qmin " qmin"
Set the minimum quality for the bank to \fIqmin\fP.
.TP
.BI \-qmax " qmax"
Set the maximum quality for the bank to \fIqmax\fP.
.TP
.BI \-maxmm " maxmm"
Set the maximum allowed mismatch for the bank to \fImaxmm\fP.
.TP
.BI \-thresh " thresh"
Set the ringdown event signal-to-noise ratio threshold to \fIthresh\fP.
.TP
.BI \-scale " scale"
Scale the response function by a dynamic range factor of \fIscale\fP.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.BR LAL_DEBUG_LEVEL
Default LAL debug level to use.

.SH AUTHOR
Jolien Creighton
