.TH LALAPPS_MKCALFAC "22 January 2003" LALApps LALApps
.SH NAME
lalapps_mkcalfac - generates frame and ILWD calibration factor files

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B lalapps_mkcalfac
.RB \-run
.IR run
.RB \-ifo 'H1'|'H2'|'L1'
.IR file
.RB [ [ \-ifo 'H1'|'H2'|'L1'
.IR file2
.RB ] ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIlalapps_mkcalfac\fP generates frame-format and ILWD-format calibration
factor files from a set of ascii-format files.

The calibration factors, alpha and alpha x beta, are factors that represent a
scale change in the gain of the sensing (cavity response) function and the 
open-loop gain compared to an epoch when a point reference response was
measured.  These gains are observed to drift with time, and it is necessary
to use these factors to correct a reference closed-loop response function for
the interferometer for time of interest.  The factors are determined by using
injected calibration lines or by other means.

For any given run (e.g., E7, S1, ...) there may be one (L1 at LLO) or two
(H1 and H2 at LHO) interferometers operating at a given site.  Each
interferometer has its own ascii-format calibration file.  However, the
frame-format file containing the calibration factors must include all
interferometers operating at that site.  Hence, it is possible to specify
multiple ifos for a given run.  (See the examples below.)

The ascii-format calibration files found at URL:
http://blue.ligo-wa.caltech.edu/engrun/Calib_Home/html/cal_home.html

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-run " run"
Specify the run \fIrun\fP for the output file names, e.g., E7, S1, etc.
.TP
.BI \-ifo " ifo filename"
Specify the interferometer \fIifo\fP (one of H1, H2, or L1) and the
associated ascii-format file \fIfilename\fP

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
The command
.PP
.RS
lalapps_mkcalfac -run S1 -ifo L1 S1-L1-CAL-FACTORS.txt
.RE
.PP
will generate S1 calibration factor files for LLO from the ascii file
S1-L1-CAL-FACTORS.txt.  The command
.PP
.RS
lalapps_mkcalfac -run S1 -ifo H1 S1-H1-CAL-FACTORS.txt -ifo H2 S1-H2-CAL-FACTORS.txt
.RE
.PP
will generate S1 calibration factor files for LHO from the ascii files
S1-H1-CAL-FACTORS.txt and S1-H2-CAL-FACTORS.txt.

.SH AUTHOR
Jolien Creighton
