.TH LALAPPS_MKCALREF "22 January 2003" LALApps LALApps
.SH NAME
lalapps_mkcalref - generates frame and ILWD calibration reference files

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B lalapps_mkcalref
.RB \-run
.IR run
.RB \-time
.IR gpssec
.RB \-ifo 'H1'|'H2'|'L1'
.IR responsefile
.IR sensingfile
.RB [ [ \-ifo 'H1'|'H2'|'L1'
.IR responsefile2
.IR sensingfile2
.RB ] ... ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIlalapps_mkcalref\fP generates frame-format and ILWD-format calibration
reference files from a set of ascii-format files.

The calibration reference files contain the complex response (closed-loop)
function or the sensing (cavity response) function for a particular reference
time.  These are necessary, along with the calibration factors, alpha and beta,
to reconstruct the response function for some time of interest.

For any given run (e.g., E7, S1, ...) there may be one (L1 at LLO) or two
(H1 and H2 at LHO) interferometers operating at a given site.  Each
interferometer has its own ascii-format calibration file.  However, the
frame-format file containing the calibration factors must include all
interferometers operating at that site.  Hence, it is possible to specify
multiple ifos for a given run and reference time.  However, the precise
time of calibration is likely to be different for the two interferometers
at LHO, so, in practice, a given frame file will probably have only one
interferometer's reference spectrum.

The ascii-format calibration files found at URL:
http://blue.ligo-wa.caltech.edu/engrun/Calib_Home/html/cal_home.html

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-run " run"
Specify the run \fIrun\fP for the output file names, e.g., E7, S1, etc.
.TP
.BI \-time " gpssec"
Specify the GPS time \fIgpssec\fP of the reference calibration spectra.
.TP
.BI \-ifo " ifo responsefile sensingfile"
Specify the interferometer \fIifo\fP (one of H1, H2, or L1) and the
associated ascii-format files \fIresponsefile\fP (the response function)
and \fIsensingfile\fP (the sensing function).

.SH EXAMPLE
.TP
The command
.PP
.RS
lalapps_mkcalref -run S1 -time 715388533 -ifo L1 S1-L1-CAL-RESPONSE.txt S1-L1-CAL-CAV_GAIN.txt
.RE
.PP
will generate S1 calibration factor files for LLO from the ascii response file
S1-L1-CAL-RESPONSE.txt and the ascii sensing file S1-L1-CAL-CAV_GAIN.txt, which
were recorded at GPS time 715388533.

.SH AUTHOR
Jolien Creighton
