.TH LAL 1 "LSC Algorithm Library" "LSC"
.SH NAME
lal-config - script to get information about the installed version of LAL
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lal-config
[\-\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-exec\-prefix\fI[=DIR]\fP] [\-\-version] [\-\-libs] [\-\-cflags] [\-\-mpi\-enabled] [\-\-frame\-enabled]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIlal-config\fP is a tool that is used to configure to determine
the compiler and linker flags that should be used to compile
and link programs that use \fILAL\fP. It is also used internally
to the .m4 macros for GNU autoconf that will be included with \fILAL\fP
in the future.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.l
\fIlal-config\fP accepts the following options:
.TP 8
.B  \-\-version
Print the currently installed version of \fILAL\fP on the standard output.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-libs
Print the linker flags that are necessary to link a \fILAL\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-cflags
Print the compiler flags that are necessary to compile a \fILAL\fP program.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of the installation prefix that \fILAL\fP
was built with when computing the output for the \-\-cflags and
\-\-libs options. This option is also used for the exec prefix
if \-\-exec\-prefix was not specified. This option must be specified
before any \-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-exec\-prefix=PREFIX
If specified, use PREFIX instead of the installation exec prefix that
\fILAL\fP was built with when computing the output for the \-\-cflags
and \-\-libs options.  This option must be specified before any
\-\-libs or \-\-cflags options.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-mpi\-enabled
If specified, use indicate if LAL has been compiled with MPI support.
.TP 8
.B  \-\-frame\-enabled
If specified, use indicate if LAL has been compiled with FrameL support.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR gtk-config (1)
